docs/ref/getting-started/installation.md, before:

# Installation

## Installing the Wazuh indexer step by step

Install and configure the Wazuh indexer as a single-node or multi-node cluster, following step-by-step instructions. The installation process is divided into three stages.

1. Certificates creation

2. Nodes installation

3. Cluster initialization

> **Note** You need root user privileges to run all the commands described below.

## 1. Certificates creation

### Generating the SSL certificates

1. Download the `wazuh-certs-tool.sh` script and the `config.yml` configuration file. This creates the certificates that encrypt communications between the Wazuh central components.

    ```bash
    curl -sO https://packages-dev.wazuh.com/6.0/wazuh-certs-tool.sh
    curl -sO https://packages-dev.wazuh.com/6.0/config.yml
    ```

1. Edit `./config.yml` and replace the node names and IP values with the corresponding names and IP addresses. You need to do this for all Wazuh server, Wazuh indexer, and Wazuh dashboard nodes. Add as many node fields as needed.

    ```yml
    nodes:
      # Wazuh indexer nodes
      indexer:
        - name: node-1
          ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
        #- name: node-2
        #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
        #- name: node-3
        #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"

      # Wazuh server nodes
      # If there is more than one Wazuh server
      # node, each one must have a node_type
      server:
        - name: wazuh-1
          ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
        #  node_type: master
        #- name: wazuh-2
        #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
        #  node_type: worker
        #- name: wazuh-3
        #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
        #  node_type: worker

      # Wazuh dashboard nodes
      dashboard:
        - name: dashboard
          ip: "<dashboard-node-ip>"
    ```

    To learn more about how to create and configure the certificates, see the [Certificates deployment](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/wazuh-indexer-cluster/certificate-deployment.html) section.

1. Run `./wazuh-certs-tool.sh` to create the certificates. For a multi-node cluster, these certificates need to be later deployed to all Wazuh instances in your cluster.

    ```bash
    ./wazuh-certs-tool.sh -A
    ```

1. Compress all the necessary files.

    ```bash
    tar -cvf ./wazuh-certificates.tar -C ./wazuh-certificates/ .
    rm -rf ./wazuh-certificates
    ```

1. Copy the `wazuh-certificates.tar` file to all the nodes, including the Wazuh indexer, Wazuh server, and Wazuh dashboard nodes. This can be done by using the `scp` utility.

## 2. Nodes installation

### Installing package dependencies

Install the following packages if missing:

#### Yum

  ```bash
  yum install coreutils
  ```

  ---

#### APT

  ```bash
  apt-get install debconf adduser procps
  ```

### Adding the Wazuh repository

#### Yum

1. Import the GPG key.

    ```bash
    rpm --import https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    ```

1. Add the repository.

    ```bash
    echo -e '[wazuh]\ngpgcheck=1\ngpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH\nenabled=1\nname=EL-$releasever - Wazuh\nbaseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/5.x/yum/\nprotect=1' | tee /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo
    ```

---

#### APT

1. Install the following packages if missing.

    ```bash
    apt-get install gnupg apt-transport-https
    ```

2. Install the GPG key.

    ```bash
    curl -s https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH | gpg --no-default-keyring --keyring gnupg-ring:/usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg --import && chmod 644 /usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg
    ```

3. Add the repository.

    ```bash
    echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg] https://packages.wazuh.com/5.x/apt/ stable main" | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list
    ```

4. Update the packages information.

    ```bash
    apt-get update
    ```

### Installing the Wazuh indexer package

#### Yum

```bash
yum -y install wazuh-indexer
```

---

#### APT

```bash
apt-get -y install wazuh-indexer
```

### Configuring the Wazuh indexer

Edit the `/etc/wazuh-indexer/opensearch.yml` configuration file and replace the following values:

  a. **`network.host`**: Sets the address of this node for both HTTP and transport traffic. The node will bind to this address and use it as its publish address. Accepts an IP address or a hostname.
  Use the same node address set in `config.yml` to create the SSL certificates.

  b. **`node.name`**: Name of the Wazuh indexer node as defined in the `config.yml` file. For example, `node-1`.

  c. **`cluster.initial_master_nodes`**: List of the names of the master-eligible nodes. These names are defined in the `config.yml` file. Uncomment the `node-2` and `config.yml` and `node-3`lines, change the names, or add more lines, according to your onfig.yml`definitions.

  ```yml
  cluster.initial_master_nodes:
  - "node-1"
  - "node-2"
  - "node-3"
  ```

  d. **`discovery.seed_hosts`**: List of the addresses of the master-eligible nodes. Each element can be either an IP address or a hostname. You may leave this setting commented if you are configuring the Wazuh indexer as a single node. For multi-node configurations, uncomment this setting and set the IP addresses of each master-eligible node.

  ```yml
  discovery.seed_hosts:
  - "10.0.0.1"
  - "10.0.0.2"
  - "10.0.0.3"
  ```

  e. **`plugins.security.nodes_dn`**: List of the Distinguished Names of the certificates of all the Wazuh indexer cluster nodes. Uncomment the lines for `node-2` and `node-3` and change the common names (CN) and values according to your settings and your `config.yml` definitions.

  ```yml
  plugins.security.nodes_dn:
  - "CN=node-1,OU=Wazuh,O=Wazuh,L=California,C=US"
  - "CN=node-2,OU=Wazuh,O=Wazuh,L=California,C=US"
  - "CN=node-3,OU=Wazuh,O=Wazuh,L=California,C=US"
  ```

### Deploying certificates

> **Note**: Make sure that a copy of the `nazuh-certificates.tar` file, created during the initial configuration step, is placed in your working directory.

Run the following commands, replacing `<INDEXER_NODE_NAME>` with the name of the Wazuh indexer node you are configuring as defined in `config.yml`. For example, `node-1`. This deploys the SSL certificates to encrypt communications between the Wazuh central components.

```bash
NODE_NAME=<INDEXER_NODE_NAME>
```

```bash
mkdir /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs
tar -xf ./wazuh-certificates.tar -C /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/ ./$NODE_NAME.pem ./$NODE_NAME-key.pem ./admin.pem ./admin-key.pem ./root-ca.pem
mv -n /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/$NODE_NAME.pem /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/indexer.pem
mv -n /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/$NODE_NAME-key.pem /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/indexer-key.pem
chmod 500 /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs
chmod 400 /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/*
chown -R wazuh-indexer:wazuh-indexer /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs
```

### Starting the service

Enable and start the Wazuh indexer service.

#### Systemd

```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable wazuh-indexer
systemctl start wazuh-indexer
```

---

#### SysV init

Choose one option according to the operating system used.

  a. RPM-based operating system:

  ```bash
  chkconfig --add wazuh-indexer
  service wazuh-indexer start
  ```

  b. Debian-based operating system:

  ```bash
  update-rc.d wazuh-indexer defaults 95 10
  service wazuh-indexer start
  ```

---

Repeat this stage of the installation process for every Wazuh indexer node in your cluster. Then proceed with initializing your single-node or multi-node cluster in the next stage.

## 3. Cluster initialization

Run the Wazuh indexer `indexer-security-init.sh` script on any Wazuh indexer node to load the new certificates information and start the single-node or multi-node cluster.

```bash
/usr/share/wazuh-indexer/bin/indexer-security-init.sh
```

> **Note**: You only have to initialize the cluster once, there is no need to run this command on every node.

### Testing the cluster installation

1. Replace `<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>` and run the following commands to confirm that the installation is successful.

    ```bash
    curl -k -u admin:admin https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADRESS>:9200
    ```

    **Output**

    ```json
    {
      "name" : "node-1",
      "cluster_name" : "wazuh-cluster",
      "cluster_uuid" : "095jEW-oRJSFKLz5wmo5PA",
      "version" : {
        "number" : "7.10.2",
        "build_type" : "rpm",
        "build_hash" : "db90a415ff2fd428b4f7b3f800a51dc229287cb4",
        "build_date" : "2023-06-03T06:24:25.112415503Z",
        "build_snapshot" : false,
        "lucene_version" : "9.6.0",
        "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.10.0",
        "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
      },
      "tagline" : "The OpenSearch Project: https://opensearch.org/"
    }
    ```

1. Replace `<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>` and run the following command to check if the single-node or multi-node cluster is working correctly.

    ```bash
    curl -k -u admin:admin https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>:9200/_cat/nodes?v
    ```

Commit message:

Fix unauthorized request to the Command Manager API (#394)
* Refactor CommandManagerClient postCommand() method

Update postCommand to set the authentication headers

Add command manager authentication fields to PluginSettings

Add test keystore value

* Apply spotless

* Make ContentManagerPlugin reloadable

* Update CHANGELOG

* Update documentation

* Update documentation with keystore creation

Improve variable naming

* Rename settings

* Update Javadocs

* Fix typo

---------

Signed-off-by: Álex Ruiz Becerra <alejandro.ruiz.becerra@wazuh.com>
Co-authored-by: Álex Ruiz Becerra <alejandro.ruiz.becerra@wazuh.com>

docs/ref/getting-started/installation.md, after:

# Installation

## Installing the Wazuh indexer step by step

Install and configure the Wazuh indexer as a single-node or multi-node cluster, following step-by-step instructions. The installation process is divided into three stages.

1. Certificates creation

2. Nodes installation

3. Cluster initialization

> **Note** You need root user privileges to run all the commands described below.

## 1. Certificates creation

### Generating the SSL certificates

1. Download the `wazuh-certs-tool.sh` script and the `config.yml` configuration file. This creates the certificates that encrypt communications between the Wazuh central components.

    ```bash
    curl -sO https://packages-dev.wazuh.com/6.0/wazuh-certs-tool.sh
    curl -sO https://packages-dev.wazuh.com/6.0/config.yml
    ```

1. Edit `./config.yml` and replace the node names and IP values with the corresponding names and IP addresses. You need to do this for all Wazuh server, Wazuh indexer, and Wazuh dashboard nodes. Add as many node fields as needed.

    ```yml
    nodes:
      # Wazuh indexer nodes
      indexer:
        - name: node-1
          ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
        #- name: node-2
        #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
        #- name: node-3
        #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"

      # Wazuh server nodes
      # If there is more than one Wazuh server
      # node, each one must have a node_type
      server:
        - name: wazuh-1
          ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
        #  node_type: master
        #- name: wazuh-2
        #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
        #  node_type: worker
        #- name: wazuh-3
        #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
        #  node_type: worker

      # Wazuh dashboard nodes
      dashboard:
        - name: dashboard
          ip: "<dashboard-node-ip>"
    ```

    To learn more about how to create and configure the certificates, see the [Certificates deployment](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/wazuh-indexer-cluster/certificate-deployment.html) section.

1. Run `./wazuh-certs-tool.sh` to create the certificates. For a multi-node cluster, these certificates need to be later deployed to all Wazuh instances in your cluster.

    ```bash
    ./wazuh-certs-tool.sh -A
    ```

1. Compress all the necessary files.

    ```bash
    tar -cvf ./wazuh-certificates.tar -C ./wazuh-certificates/ .
    rm -rf ./wazuh-certificates
    ```

1. Copy the `wazuh-certificates.tar` file to all the nodes, including the Wazuh indexer, Wazuh server, and Wazuh dashboard nodes. This can be done by using the `scp` utility.

## 2. Nodes installation

### Installing package dependencies

Install the following packages if missing:

#### Yum

  ```bash
  yum install coreutils
  ```

  ---

#### APT

  ```bash
  apt-get install debconf adduser procps
  ```

### Adding the Wazuh repository

#### Yum

1. Import the GPG key.

    ```bash
    rpm --import https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    ```

1. Add the repository.

    ```bash
    echo -e '[wazuh]\ngpgcheck=1\ngpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH\nenabled=1\nname=EL-$releasever - Wazuh\nbaseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/5.x/yum/\nprotect=1' | tee /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo
    ```

---

#### APT

1. Install the following packages if missing.

    ```bash
    apt-get install gnupg apt-transport-https
    ```

2. Install the GPG key.

    ```bash
    curl -s https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH | gpg --no-default-keyring --keyring gnupg-ring:/usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg --import && chmod 644 /usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg
    ```

3. Add the repository.

    ```bash
    echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/wazuh.gpg] https://packages.wazuh.com/5.x/apt/ stable main" | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list
    ```

4. Update the packages information.

    ```bash
    apt-get update
    ```

### Installing the Wazuh indexer package

#### Yum

```bash
yum -y install wazuh-indexer
```

---

#### APT

```bash
apt-get -y install wazuh-indexer
```

### Configuring the Wazuh indexer

Edit the `/etc/wazuh-indexer/opensearch.yml` configuration file and replace the following values:

  a. **`network.host`**: Sets the address of this node for both HTTP and transport traffic. The node will bind to this address and use it as its publish address. Accepts an IP address or a hostname.
  Use the same node address set in `config.yml` to create the SSL certificates.

  b. **`node.name`**: Name of the Wazuh indexer node as defined in the `config.yml` file. For example, `node-1`.

  c. **`cluster.initial_master_nodes`**: List of the names of the master-eligible nodes. These names are defined in the `config.yml` file. Uncomment the `node-2` and `config.yml` and `node-3`lines, change the names, or add more lines, according to your onfig.yml`definitions.

  ```yml
  cluster.initial_master_nodes:
  - "node-1"
  - "node-2"
  - "node-3"
  ```

  d. **`discovery.seed_hosts`**: List of the addresses of the master-eligible nodes. Each element can be either an IP address or a hostname. You may leave this setting commented if you are configuring the Wazuh indexer as a single node. For multi-node configurations, uncomment this setting and set the IP addresses of each master-eligible node.

  ```yml
  discovery.seed_hosts:
  - "10.0.0.1"
  - "10.0.0.2"
  - "10.0.0.3"
  ```

  e. **`plugins.security.nodes_dn`**: List of the Distinguished Names of the certificates of all the Wazuh indexer cluster nodes. Uncomment the lines for `node-2` and `node-3` and change the common names (CN) and values according to your settings and your `config.yml` definitions.

  ```yml
  plugins.security.nodes_dn:
  - "CN=node-1,OU=Wazuh,O=Wazuh,L=California,C=US"
  - "CN=node-2,OU=Wazuh,O=Wazuh,L=California,C=US"
  - "CN=node-3,OU=Wazuh,O=Wazuh,L=California,C=US"
  ```

  f. Create a keystore to securely store authentication credentials and add the default _username_ and _password_ to the secrets keystore:
  > The default values for the user and password are `admin:admin`.
  ```bash
  /usr/share/wazuh-indexer/bin/opensearch-keystore create
  echo '<USERNAME>' | /usr/share/wazuh-indexer/bin/opensearch-keystore add indexer.username
  echo '<PASSWORD>' | /usr/share/wazuh-indexer/bin/opensearch-keystore add indexer.password
  sudo chown wazuh-indexer:wazuh-indexer /etc/wazuh-indexer/opensearch.keystore
  ```
### Deploying certificates

> **Note**: Make sure that a copy of the `nazuh-certificates.tar` file, created during the initial configuration step, is placed in your working directory.

Run the following commands, replacing `<INDEXER_NODE_NAME>` with the name of the Wazuh indexer node you are configuring as defined in `config.yml`. For example, `node-1`. This deploys the SSL certificates to encrypt communications between the Wazuh central components.

```bash
NODE_NAME=<INDEXER_NODE_NAME>
```

```bash
mkdir /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs
tar -xf ./wazuh-certificates.tar -C /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/ ./$NODE_NAME.pem ./$NODE_NAME-key.pem ./admin.pem ./admin-key.pem ./root-ca.pem
mv -n /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/$NODE_NAME.pem /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/indexer.pem
mv -n /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/$NODE_NAME-key.pem /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/indexer-key.pem
chmod 500 /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs
chmod 400 /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs/*
chown -R wazuh-indexer:wazuh-indexer /etc/wazuh-indexer/certs
```

### Starting the service

Enable and start the Wazuh indexer service.

#### Systemd

```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable wazuh-indexer
systemctl start wazuh-indexer
```

---

#### SysV init

Choose one option according to the operating system used.

  a. RPM-based operating system:

  ```bash
  chkconfig --add wazuh-indexer
  service wazuh-indexer start
  ```

  b. Debian-based operating system:

  ```bash
  update-rc.d wazuh-indexer defaults 95 10
  service wazuh-indexer start
  ```

---

Repeat this stage of the installation process for every Wazuh indexer node in your cluster. Then proceed with initializing your single-node or multi-node cluster in the next stage.

## 3. Cluster initialization

Run the Wazuh indexer `indexer-security-init.sh` script on any Wazuh indexer node to load the new certificates information and start the single-node or multi-node cluster.

```bash
/usr/share/wazuh-indexer/bin/indexer-security-init.sh
```

> **Note**: You only have to initialize the cluster once, there is no need to run this command on every node.

### Testing the cluster installation

1. Replace `<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>` and run the following commands to confirm that the installation is successful.

    ```bash
    curl -k -u admin:admin https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADRESS>:9200
    ```

    **Output**

    ```json
    {
      "name" : "node-1",
      "cluster_name" : "wazuh-cluster",
      "cluster_uuid" : "095jEW-oRJSFKLz5wmo5PA",
      "version" : {
        "number" : "7.10.2",
        "build_type" : "rpm",
        "build_hash" : "db90a415ff2fd428b4f7b3f800a51dc229287cb4",
        "build_date" : "2023-06-03T06:24:25.112415503Z",
        "build_snapshot" : false,
        "lucene_version" : "9.6.0",
        "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.10.0",
        "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
      },
      "tagline" : "The OpenSearch Project: https://opensearch.org/"
    }
    ```

1. Replace `<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>` and run the following command to check if the single-node or multi-node cluster is working correctly.

    ```bash
    curl -k -u admin:admin https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>:9200/_cat/nodes?v
    ```
