docs/ref/description.md, before:

# Description

The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable, full-text search and analytics engine. This Wazuh central component indexes and stores alerts generated by the Wazuh server and provides near real-time data search and analytics capabilities. The Wazuh indexer can be configured as a single-node or multi-node cluster, providing scalability and high availability.

The Wazuh indexer stores data as JSON documents. Each **document** correlates a set of keys, field names or properties, with their corresponding values which can be strings, numbers, booleans, dates, arrays of values, geolocations, or other types of data.

An **index** is a collection of documents that are related to each other. The documents stored in the Wazuh indexer are distributed across different containers known as **shards**. By distributing the documents across multiple shards, and distributing those shards across multiple nodes, the Wazuh indexer can ensure redundancy. This protects your system against hardware failures and increases query capacity as nodes are added to a cluster.

![indexer shards](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/_images/wazuh-indexer1.png)

The Wazuh indexer stores the data collected by the Wazuh agents in separate indices. Each index contains documents with specific inventory information. In this section, you can find a description of the information in each index.

| Index                            | Description                                                                                |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| wazuh‑alerts                     | Stores alerts generated by the [Wazuh server](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/getting-started/components/wazuh-server.html). These are created each time an event trips a rule with a high enough priority (this threshold is configurable). |
| wazuh-states-fim-files           | File Integrity Monitoring: Information about the monitorized files.                            |
| wazuh-states-fim-registries      | File Integrity Monitoring: Information about the Windows registry.                             |
| wazuh-states-inventory-hardware  | Basic information about the hardware components of an endpoint.                                |
| wazuh-states-inventory-hotfixes  | Contains information about the updates installed on Windows endpoints. This information is used by the vulnerability detector module to discover what vulnerabilities have been patched on Windows endpoints.                              |
| wazuh-states-inventory-interfaces| Stores packet transfer information about the interfaces on a monitored endpoint for tracking interface state, performance, and changes over time.  |
| wazuh-states-inventory-monitoring| Stores the connection status history of Wazuh agents (active, disconnected, pending, or never connected). These indices are used by the Wazuh Dashboard to display agent status and historical trends.                                              |
| wazuh-states-inventory-networks  | Stores the IPv4 and IPv6 addresses associated with each network interface, as referenced in the wazuh-states-inventory-interfaces index.                         |
| wazuh-states-inventory-packages  | Stores information about the currently installed software on the endpoint.                     |
| wazuh-states-inventory-ports     | Basic information about open network ports on the endpoint.                                    |
| wazuh-states-inventory-processes | Stores the detected running processes on the endpoints.                                        |
| wazuh-states-inventory-protocols | Stores routing configuration details for each network interface, as referenced in the wazuh-states-inventory-interfaces index.                         |
| wazuh-states-inventory-system    | Operating system information, hostname and architecture.                                       |
| wazuh-states-vulnerabilities     | Active vulnerabilities on the endpoint and its details.                                        |
| wazuh‑archives                   | Stores all events (archive data) received by the [Wazuh server](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/getting-started/components/wazuh-server.html), whether they trip a rule.                                                            |
| wazuh-statistics                 | Stores Wazuh server usage-related information every 5 minutes by default. The Wazuh dashboard creates them by running requests to the Wazuh manager API. |

Commit message:

Add groups and users indexes

docs/ref/description.md, after:

# Description

The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable, full-text search and analytics engine. This Wazuh central component indexes and stores alerts generated by the Wazuh server and provides near real-time data search and analytics capabilities. The Wazuh indexer can be configured as a single-node or multi-node cluster, providing scalability and high availability.

The Wazuh indexer stores data as JSON documents. Each **document** correlates a set of keys, field names or properties, with their corresponding values which can be strings, numbers, booleans, dates, arrays of values, geolocations, or other types of data.

An **index** is a collection of documents that are related to each other. The documents stored in the Wazuh indexer are distributed across different containers known as **shards**. By distributing the documents across multiple shards, and distributing those shards across multiple nodes, the Wazuh indexer can ensure redundancy. This protects your system against hardware failures and increases query capacity as nodes are added to a cluster.

![indexer shards](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/_images/wazuh-indexer1.png)

The Wazuh indexer stores the data collected by the Wazuh agents in separate indices. Each index contains documents with specific inventory information. In this section, you can find a description of the information in each index.

| Index                            | Description                                                                                |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| wazuh‑alerts                     | Stores alerts generated by the [Wazuh server](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/getting-started/components/wazuh-server.html). These are created each time an event trips a rule with a high enough priority (this threshold is configurable). |
| wazuh-states-fim-files           | File Integrity Monitoring: Information about the monitorized files.                            |
| wazuh-states-fim-registries      | File Integrity Monitoring: Information about the Windows registry.                             |
| wazuh-states-inventory-groups    | Stores existing groups on the endpoint.                                                         |
| wazuh-states-inventory-hardware  | Basic information about the hardware components of an endpoint.                                |
| wazuh-states-inventory-hotfixes  | Contains information about the updates installed on Windows endpoints. This information is used by the vulnerability detector module to discover what vulnerabilities have been patched on Windows endpoints.                              |
| wazuh-states-inventory-interfaces| Stores packet transfer information about the interfaces on a monitored endpoint for tracking interface state, performance, and changes over time.  |
| wazuh-states-inventory-monitoring| Stores the connection status history of Wazuh agents (active, disconnected, pending, or never connected). These indices are used by the Wazuh Dashboard to display agent status and historical trends.                                              |
| wazuh-states-inventory-networks  | Stores the IPv4 and IPv6 addresses associated with each network interface, as referenced in the wazuh-states-inventory-interfaces index.                         |
| wazuh-states-inventory-packages  | Stores information about the currently installed software on the endpoint.                     |
| wazuh-states-inventory-ports     | Basic information about open network ports on the endpoint.                                    |
| wazuh-states-inventory-processes | Stores the detected running processes on the endpoints.                                        |
| wazuh-states-inventory-protocols | Stores routing configuration details for each network interface, as referenced in the wazuh-states-inventory-interfaces index.                         |
| wazuh-states-inventory-system    | Operating system information, hostname and architecture.                                       |
| wazuh-states-inventory-users     | Stores existing users on the endpoint.                                                         |
| wazuh-states-vulnerabilities     | Active vulnerabilities on the endpoint and its details.                                        |
| wazuh‑archives                   | Stores all events (archive data) received by the [Wazuh server](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/getting-started/components/wazuh-server.html), whether they trip a rule.                                                            |
| wazuh-statistics                 | Stores Wazuh server usage-related information every 5 minutes by default. The Wazuh dashboard creates them by running requests to the Wazuh manager API. |
