docs/ref/modules/setup/schema.md, before:

# Wazuh Common Schema

The Wazuh Common Schema (WCS) is a standardized structure for organizing and categorizing security event data collected by Wazuh. It is designed to facilitate data analysis, correlation, and reporting across different data sources and types.

### Categorization

The Wazuh Common Schema categorizes events into several key areas to streamline data management and analysis.

#### Access Management

None yet.

#### Applications and Web Servers

| Integration Name                         | Subcategory | Category     |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------ |
| Apache integration                       | Apache      | Applications |
| NGINX integration                        | -           | Applications |
| IIS integration                          | -           | Applications |
| Apache Tomcat integration                | Apache      | Applications |
| WebSphere Application Server integration | -           | Applications |
| Oracle WebLogic Server integration       | -           | Applications |
| Spring Boot integration                  | -           | Applications |
| squid                                    | -           | Applications |

#### Cloud Services

| Integration Name     | Subcategory | Category       |
| -------------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| Amazon Security Lake | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS                  | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Bedrock          | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Logs             | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Fargate          | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Firehose         | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| Azure                | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure Blob Storage   | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure App Service    | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure Functions      | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure Metrics        | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure OpenAI         | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Cisco Umbrella       | Cisco       | Cloud Services |
| GCP                  | Google      | Cloud Services |
| Google SCC           | Google      | Cloud Services |

#### Network Activity

| Integration Name    | Subcategory | Category         |
| ------------------- | ----------- | ---------------- |
| iptables            | -           | Network Activity |
| Cisco ASA           | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Cisco IOS           | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Cisco Meraki        | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Cisco Aironet       | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Fortinet Fortigate  | Fortinet    | Network Activity |
| CheckPoint          | -           | Network Activity |
| SonicWall           | -           | Network Activity |
| F5 BIG-IP           | -           | Network Activity |
| pfSense             | -           | Network Activity |
| Fortinet Fortiproxy | Fortinet    | Network Activity |

#### Security 

| Integration Name | Subcategory | Category |
| ---------------- | ----------- | -------- |
| Snort            | -           | Security |
| Suricata         | -           | Security |
| ModSecurity      | -           | Security |
| Zeek             | -           | Security |

#### System Activity

| Integration Name        | Subcategory | Category        |
| ----------------------- | ----------- | --------------- |
| Auditd                  | Linux       | System Activity |
| Sysmon Linux            | Linux       | System Activity |
| Windows                 | Windows     | System Activity |
| Windows DHCP            | Windows     | System Activity |
| Windows DNS server      | Windows     | System Activity |
| Windows Exchange server | Windows     | System Activity |
| ULS                     | macOS       | System Activity |

#### Other

None yet.

### Indices

```
wazuh-events-5.x-access-management-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-applications-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-network-activity-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-security-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-system-activity-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-other-000001
```

### Aliases

```
wazuh-events-5.x-access-management
wazuh-events-5.x-applications
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services
wazuh-events-5.x-network-activity
wazuh-events-5.x-security
wazuh-events-5.x-system-activity
wazuh-events-5.x-other
```

Commit message:

Add cloud services subcategories (#595)
* Add subcategories

Fixes missing changes to aliases on the templates

* Fix index template priority not being used

* Update WCS documentation

* Add changelog entry

Fix test failure

docs/ref/modules/setup/schema.md, after:

# Wazuh Common Schema

The Wazuh Common Schema (WCS) is a standardized structure for organizing and categorizing security event data collected by Wazuh. It is designed to facilitate data analysis, correlation, and reporting across different data sources and types.

### Categorization

The Wazuh Common Schema categorizes events into several key areas to streamline data management and analysis.

The index mappings and settings for subcategories take precedence over those from the main category. In OpenSearch, index templates are applied in order of their "priority" value: templates with a lower priority are applied first, and those with a higher priority are applied afterward, allowing them to override previous settings. This means the index template for the main category is applied first (priority=1), and then the subcategory template (priority=10) is applied on top of it, so subcategory-specific settings override the main category defaults.

#### Access Management

None yet.

#### Applications and Web Servers

| Integration Name                         | Subcategory | Category     |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------ |
| Apache integration                       | Apache      | Applications |
| NGINX integration                        | -           | Applications |
| IIS integration                          | -           | Applications |
| Apache Tomcat integration                | Apache      | Applications |
| WebSphere Application Server integration | -           | Applications |
| Oracle WebLogic Server integration       | -           | Applications |
| Spring Boot integration                  | -           | Applications |
| squid                                    | -           | Applications |

#### Cloud Services

| Integration Name     | Subcategory | Category       |
| -------------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| Amazon Security Lake | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS                  | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Bedrock          | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Logs             | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Fargate          | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| AWS Firehose         | AWS         | Cloud Services |
| Azure                | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure Blob Storage   | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure App Service    | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure Functions      | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure Metrics        | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Azure OpenAI         | Azure       | Cloud Services |
| Cisco Umbrella       | -           | Cloud Services |
| GCP                  | GCP         | Cloud Services |
| Google SCC           | GCP         | Cloud Services |

#### Network Activity

| Integration Name    | Subcategory | Category         |
| ------------------- | ----------- | ---------------- |
| iptables            | -           | Network Activity |
| Cisco ASA           | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Cisco IOS           | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Cisco Meraki        | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Cisco Aironet       | Cisco       | Network Activity |
| Fortinet Fortigate  | Fortinet    | Network Activity |
| CheckPoint          | -           | Network Activity |
| SonicWall           | -           | Network Activity |
| F5 BIG-IP           | -           | Network Activity |
| pfSense             | -           | Network Activity |
| Fortinet Fortiproxy | Fortinet    | Network Activity |

#### Security 

| Integration Name | Subcategory | Category |
| ---------------- | ----------- | -------- |
| Snort            | -           | Security |
| Suricata         | -           | Security |
| ModSecurity      | -           | Security |
| Zeek             | -           | Security |

#### System Activity

| Integration Name        | Subcategory | Category        |
| ----------------------- | ----------- | --------------- |
| Auditd                  | Linux       | System Activity |
| Sysmon Linux            | Linux       | System Activity |
| Windows                 | Windows     | System Activity |
| Windows DHCP            | Windows     | System Activity |
| Windows DNS server      | Windows     | System Activity |
| Windows Exchange server | Windows     | System Activity |
| ULS                     | macOS       | System Activity |

#### Other

None yet.

### Indices

```
wazuh-events-5.x-access-management-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-applications-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-aws-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-azure-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-gcp-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-network-activity-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-other-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-security-000001
wazuh-events-5.x-system-activity-000001
```

### Aliases

```
wazuh-events-5.x-access-management
wazuh-events-5.x-applications
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-aws
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-azure
wazuh-events-5.x-cloud-services-gcp
wazuh-events-5.x-network-activity
wazuh-events-5.x-other
wazuh-events-5.x-security
wazuh-events-5.x-system-activity
```
